---
title: "Define and visualize pathological architectures of human tissues from spatially resolved transcriptomics using deep learning"
collection: publications
category: journal
permalink: /publication/2022-08-24
excerpt: 'A deep-learning framework for characterizing and visualizing tissue architecture from spatially resolved transcriptomics.'
date: 2022-08-07
venue: 'Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2001037022003646/pdfft?md5=bfbeed072f55ae962bc643859a9afe6e&pid=1-s2.0-S2001037022003646-main.pdf'
citation: '<b>Chang, Yuzhou, Fei He, Juexin Wang</b>, Shuo Chen, Jingyi Li, Jixin Liu, Yang Yu et al. &quot;Define and visualize pathological architectures of human tissues from spatially resolved transcriptomics using deep learning.&quot; <i>Computational and structural biotechnology journal</i> 20 (2022): 4600-4617.'
---

Abstract
=======
Spatially resolved transcriptomics provides a new way to define spatial contexts and understand the pathogenesis of complex human diseases. Although some computational frameworks can characterize spatial context via various clustering methods, the detailed spatial architectures and functional zonation often cannot be revealed and localized due to the limited capacities of associating spatial information. We present RESEPT, a deep-learning framework for characterizing and visualizing tissue architecture from spatially resolved transcriptomics. Given inputs such as gene expression or RNA velocity, RESEPT learns a three-dimensional embedding with a spatial retained graph neural network from spatial transcriptomics. The embedding is then visualized by mapping into color channels in an RGB image and segmented with a supervised convolutional neural network model. Based on a benchmark of 10x Genomics Visium spatial transcriptomics datasets on the human and mouse cortex, RESEPT infers and visualizes the tissue architecture accurately. It is noteworthy that, for the in-house AD samples, RESEPT can localize cortex layers and cell types based on pre-defined region- or cell-type-enriched genes and furthermore provide critical insights into the identification of amyloid-beta plaques in Alzheimer's disease. Interestingly, in a glioblastoma sample analysis, RESEPT distinguishes tumor-enriched, non-tumor, and regions of neuropil with infiltrating tumor cells in support of clinical and prognostic cancer applications.


[Details in Portfolio](/portfolio/portfolio-3/)


Project Link
=======
[https://github.com/OSU-BMBL/RESEPT](https://github.com/OSU-BMBL/RESEPT)
